[MUSIC] There was this whole world of coders,
and hardware guys in the 60s, and I thought to myself, I bet there's
a really interesting story here. So my editor and Simon & Schuster
was totally 100% behind it. The working title was really bad,
it was called Building Cyber Space, so we knew we needed a new title. And so, and Matt, my late husband, didn't come in on the project,
he was actually a better writer than I am. And a wonderful, just had an absolutely
incredible mind, and could grasp anything. And he didn't come in on the project
until maybe a year into it, when I was getting overwhelmed. I had this new baby and
I was working at Newsweek, and I was, and I realized that there was just more
to the story than I could do myself. It would've taken me like double the time. So, that's when he came in on the project. And, I found, indeed, that there was this incredible untold
story of not so much the Internet, so, we have to keep it really clear,
the ARPANET, and how that started. And, in fact, Matt's the one that wrote
the chapter, The Fastest Million Dollars. Which is about how it got funded, at IPTO, the Information Processing
Techniques Office, at what was then DARPA and then became
ORPA, then DARPA, and then ORPA again. And these people were all, as I had hoped,
incredibly interesting, really smart. And had this new idea for
how computers could talk to each other. And one of the most amazing
things was visiting Larry Roberts, who was running IPTO at the
time that this whole thing was drawn out. We were at his house in Woodside and
we went out into the garage. This is how unresearched this topic was. Cuz who'd a thunk, right? And we go out into his garage there
are all these boxes of old mildewy papers. And he starts pulling them out and they're
old letters between him and people at MIT. And then he pulls out this amazing
set of sketches of him just, it's like remember what Trudeau Doonesbury
did inside Reagan's brain? This was like inside Larry Robert's brain,
he was just sketching out all the possible configurations
of what this network could look like. And I've got these pictures in the book,
which you can show. But here, these are all his very early diagrams just sort of
popping out of his head. This is the early notes on the ARPANET. And I just loved finding all this
incredible primary source material. And it was,
I felt like I should have been paying somebody to be able to
do this rather than. >> Right because it's just in a garage
that millions of people drive by right? And it's also this important artifact
of what we're living right now. >> Right, and we were sort of able
to capture it and both Beranek and Newman was a big a force behind the book. The book was in part their idea. And so these guys, because what
we tend to forget is that BBN, they built the first IMP, and
the interface message processor. In fact, there's a very funny story
in the book where Ted Kennedy, Senator from Massachusetts,
sends a letter to BBN, congratulating them on getting the contract for
the interfaith message processor. >> [LAUGH]
>> I know, so completely uncharted territory, and they had to build this
piece of hardware, which they did. And program it,
which they did a whole new thing. So I spent a lot of time with the folks
at BBN, got to know them well. And that group, they were
completely unschooled in talking to reporters or a book researcher, and
there was this one guy, Ray Tomlinson. Everybody said oh, you should go talk to
Ray, because he came up with the @ sign. I said oh really? [LAUGH] Okay. And so here's just wonderful really quiet
guy, Ray Tomlinson, sitting in his office. And I knocked on his door. I said,
I understand you came up with the @ sign. He goes, oh yeah, yeah, and then he
explains to me how it is that he did this. And then, now it's a huge legend
that Ray Tomlinson did this. And the software guys, really-
>> I had this image of you sort of just driving and driving, and going,
and going back and forth. I mean how long was the research? How long did you research this,
was this like? >> Yeah,
the research took a couple of years. And it wasn't so much driving. The hacker book was driving all over,
all over the place, cuz that was three different
stories of three different hackers. This was more, in fact, email,
between the hacker book and this book, and Wizards of 1988, and when I started this book 1993,
email was much more popular. So we did a lot of emailing back and
forth. I was living in Austin at the time,
I did go from Austin to Boston a lot, and I spent a lot of time actually,
I did fly to L.A. And spent a lot of time with Jon Postel,
who came up with the domain name system. And he died in '90, I wanna say '98, '99 and that was shocking, I spent a lot of time with him. >> Tell me about it. Tell me about Jon. >> Well, Jon, so
anyone who's ever seen a picture of Jon, maybe you have one you can dig up,
this very long Santa Claus-like beard. And what's amazing is, so
I spent a lot of time at his house. He lived in a teeny tiny
little house in the L.A. area with his girlfriend,
this very nice woman named Susan. And on the refrigerator there
were all these family photos. And they all, they were all
these people with long beards, long white beards, and I thought,
what an interesting family. And drove, I think, this kind of beat
up Volvo, or something like that. Something completely unpretentious,
and lived so unpretentiously, and had all his files right in his study
in this little house, all this history. And also at ISI,
where he worked in Marina del Ray. And we spent hours and
hours and hours together, first in Boston at, where we we're both
at an anniversary party of the ARPANET. And we spent a lot of time together,
and I thought, this guy's key. And he was so quiet that sort of
getting him to open up really meant spending a lot of time with him. And he was, oh, and we met at one of
the very first INET conferences in 1995 in Hawaii and spent a lot of time there. And he just was so patiently trying
to explain to me things, but I'll never forget this one thing that happened
with him in Hawaii at the INET conference, it's the Internet Society Conference,
one of the very early ones. And I just was asking him some questions,
and he goes, he looked completely disturbed
and distracted, and he said, no, no, there's someone over across
the room I have to talk to. And it was someone from
a very small country, sort of wanting to talk to Jon about
the country's domain name or something. But to John it was far more important
that he deal with this person's problem than cement his place in history,
in this ARPANET history. In fact, when I was working on
the book I sent him an email. I'll never forget this,
I think I don't have the email anymore. And I said, just out of curiosity, why haven't you ever wanted to get rich? Because that's when people were just
starting to get rich, so this was in '95. And he said, it just,
it's just not what this is about. Isn't that a wonderful thing? >> It is. >> Yeah, and that's who Jon was. >> One of the things I've been
curious about is how this got by AT&T, right, how this made it past AT&T. >> I know, talk about no vision. >> Right. >> And, well, you know Paul Barron, he couldn't convince
AT&T to build the very marvelous network that he designed. And then these other guys, the next guys,
the next crew that came in, and they just, they were very,
very, think about it back then. It was, they had a monopoly,
what did they really care? They had, they had the Bell-
>> Bell Research. >> Research labs, and it was a not
invented here kind of syndrome. And they didn't see it. I mean, talk about no vision. They simply didn't see it. But I think the fact, that not invented
here part of it was, what would we need? What would we possibly need this for? >> Yeah, they were in a context. >> They were in their own context, yeah. But thank goodness, I mean, thank goodness
they didn't get their hands on this thing. >> Yeah.
>> The same with IBM, sorry, just, we didn't want corporate America. >> Or Deck. >> Or Deck, for that matter. The original hardware was
based on a Honeywell machine. And thank goodness Honeywell
doesn't exist anymore. It sounds terrible that I'm saying this,
but it was all kind of happy, accidental sort of coincidences. >> I think Al Gore is. >> Oh totally underestimated and
underappreciated. Is that what you were gonna say? >> Yeah. >> Oh yeah. I mean, why mock him? Every time, every time I told people
I wrote a history of the origins of the Internet, people say mockingly,
oh, did Al Gore invent it? And I won't play into that. He played a huge role in terms
of policy and direction. And when Clinton was running for
president, they were out there with this very
important technology whitepaper. That, I mean,
you can't do things like this unless you have the support that
people like Al Gore provided. [MUSIC]